Hello everyone and welcome to this lecture this lecture.
We're going to cover the strings and just a quick introduction to strings.
We're going to be using again extensively into the practical section of this course.
And we're going to again have tons of exercises right after we introduce the concept.
So here I want you to open just three a concept strings he just added like filming because he don't
have any commands.
But he should see the filming.
Merely common here.
You should find see a concept sings just to open the show put it in a book and I'm going to walk you
through it step by step.
OK.
So first of first of all what do we mean by string.
So we sing in Python is simply a sequence of characters.
So if I wanted to let's say print for example let's say hello world for instance.
All these scenes of characters that we print on the screen we call the mystery which is kind of a datatype.
So now we know what they mean by integer which is just a number.
If we have a float that means you know a number with a decimal value in it.
Okay with a fraction there element in it and its.
And we know that right now is when stinks.
OK let's take it a quick quick example.
You know what I find a very cold I'm going to call y equal for example.
Hello world.
All right.
And if I done that and if I want to view why again shift into their own hand or world.
If I said Okay show me the type of why I know that.
Now any Actually there was a string.
OK.
Which makes sense.
All right.
Okay.
So what we could do on the strings let's assume that I wanted for example to let's say the first name
defined last name and I wanted for example to print the full name.
Let's see how can we concatenate two strings when I say OK on catinat that mean to putting two strings
together you know next to each other.
Let's take a look.
So going the final four available at air quality first on this code name and I'm going to call it whatever
Mitch for example.
And then I'm going to define last underscored name and thing he would again call it let's say whatever
Steve for example and then I'm going to find the full name.
OK full underscored mean equal to what I'm going to do when I say Kate's first underscored name.
OK.
Plus.
All right.
And then I'm going right.
Let's say last under scrutiny.
Let's take a look what's going to happen I say plus OK.
You.
Plus he is and we're fine basically these two very with this ching's.
That means you're asking Python to just kind of do concatenation to each other which means putting the
two strings next to each other.
And if we don't that's okay.
And if we simply view full underscored name on that then you would find that there is much Steve basically
kind of you know like lect link to each other with no spacing between.
All right.
What if he wanted to let's say create a space you what you could do.
They can actually put a space here.
So if you're on it and read it again then you find there is a space.
That's just one way of doing it the other way of doing it is that if you wanted to give this TV like
this what you could do then you can add or create your own string in here.
You can add the plus and then you can add kind of you know courtsey and create Espy's kind of you know
one artificial kind of space in between.
If you're on there that then you will find that there is much Steve here.
Right.
Okay great.
That's pretty much you know how can you define a string.
Let's say How can you if you want to let's say print a string you could do and say print.
And then you open and then you pass along your full name in here.
When you're on that then you would find there's Mitch Steve and there no Colts because that's the actual
message or text.
They want it to be printed on the screen or a perfect book.
What other stuff that we could do on a street.
So what we could do can do tons of stuff on the scene.
Obviously here in this election I want to be able to copper of the methods and all the kind of you know
like functions that we can apply on a string.
I'm just going to cover a couple of methods that are going to be useful for us.
Let's assume that if we wanted to take let's say fool me that we had here and turn it all to uppercase
For example instead of having Mitch just called Steve for example a lower case we're going to make it
all uppercase or a capital letters to basically how can we do that.
Well we could do it though can take whatever variable.
OK so let's say take the exact same name which is full underscored underscored any and then you basically
do dot.
And then you specify which is kind of up like we do dot.
That means you're applying a method OK.
When you say he now again apply a method called Upper.
Okay.
Any open brackets and just leave open parentheses just leave it like this gape.
Then you are asking simply to take the full name and apply a method called Upper on that variable on
that full name variable.
Again we're going to cover dozens of like you know like methods and object oriented programming moving
forward.
But he of this is just a quick ordeal.
When we do that then you'll find there's much Steve becomes uppercase.
The next example though going to do the next method I'm going to do.
Let's split.
Okay let's stick full name again full name and apply a method called splits swing as a dart and say
splits and then open again parentheses empty parenthesis.
If you're on that you will find basically that read what you've got.
You have uart kind of kind of a with square brackets here.
OK and then there is the first name on its own comma and then there's last name on it's on.
What happened here is that you simply apply a split method on the full name which is simply taking the
entire string and turning it into seeders of words.
So that's why you're playing Mitch on its own.
And then Steve on its own.
And it's your turn here.
As what we call it list.
OK.
I did uncover a list so far.
But think of a list as kind of you know is seeders of numbers or a series of strings so queer that as
it lists a full list like a shopping list you know your ad for example we're going to buy.
Let's say you know like I don't know like like pence for example along with shoes along with a mix of
stuff he can do with the same so he can list of any of this stuff or the words and they are separated
by a comma in here OK.
Actually if you're going to do this let's say in a call it for example my underscored list for instance
and if I did that and if I wanted to view my own lists if I were on it they're going to come up with
these.
If you check the data type or in a C type key bracket parentheses are going to take the type of my list.
If I'm that then you'll come up with the data type that's called list which means again it's kind of
a it's not a string.
It is not an integer is not a float but it's actually a list which is not a mix of stuff in their lists.
You know I kind of think of it as an error rate as well.
Right.
OK.
So let's take a look at another example.
Let's assume that you won it like you know for example.
Let's have some a couple of cells and let's assume that in wanted to for example find like a very worthwhile
equals to an e-mail for instance and say Okay Mitch Okay so let's open the records Mitch and let's assume
for example Steve at g mail dot com which is an email.
And what I would do here is that it can actually split my meistersinger in here.
OK.
He split the string into different seeders of words.
Because he would have words separated by space.
I can actually use a split as well method but I can specify where I need to split.
Let's assume they wanted to split.
For example my string here based on the ET.
So at the end I need to split it.
Let's do that.
Let's say can we do it the same case Z equals 2.
OK.
Why.
Which is my variable k.
I think I'll apply the method method but split open parentheses.
I'm going to do here.
I'm going to pass along.
Simply what I wanted to split.
If you leave it empty then it would be split based on the spaces on the different words.
If I just do you know look at it that means I wanted to split it at the set.
OK.
OK let's run that and let's run this and let's take a look at Z.
What happened with it.
So actually you can come here with Mitch of Steve which is kind of you know your user name or you have
here and then you separate the two the name and then it and then you find g.m. Dot Com separated here
again Z as well is a list.
So if you get again what's the type of Z.
If you're on it then you come up with a list which is simply huge the elements that we have here.
Okay.
Well what I want is for example doping let's say the first element within the list or the last element
within the list let's see.
It to in Mitch stiefel example or let's see the g.m. on its own.
Again we're going to cover that extensively recover lists in the future.
But here I just want to give you kind of a quick overview because we're going to use it in doing the
exercise.
What you could do.
They can say okay zed's or right square brackets and say zero which means Because here have a list kind
of you know like an array of two elements.
I can access the first element within the list using its index.
I'm going to say Okay I now go to the Z or pain the element that has index of zero.
This is the element with a has index zero which is the first element.
This is the Index the element that has index of one and so on so forth.
So a list starts with an index of 0 1 2 3 4 and so on and so forth.
So if they say okay Z squared backwards zero in on that then you'll come up with mitchard Looks.
Alright.
What if I wanted for example to say okay Z for instance one font on it.
Then you come up with the second element which is you know g mail dot com.
Again we're going to do that again extensively on a recovery list.
He this is just a quick overview of how to perform a string and how to apply different methods on a
string.
Let's recap.
So now we know how can we define a string.
How can we apply it type of searching and unclear which are going to get come up with S T R B C is a
data type.
How can we perform string concatenation which is simply just ad Plus as if you are adding for example
strings next to each other.
How can we get the upper case using opposite method.
How can we split the string using the split method and how can we split as well.
Based on a specific element you know it at for example.
And then he said how can we simply access the different elements within the list by coming up with you
know the first name or last name using indexing said 0 for the first element and one for the second
element.
And now you're getting closer to mastering Python.
I hope you guys enjoyed this section and see you in the next section.